People are using morphine so wrong.
Let's share with the audience some context.
So yesterday, I'm usually at my computer all the time,
but I stepped away for a bad thing.
I was having dinner and I came back and then I see a bunch of messages from Adam.
The first message is a selfie from a hospital bed in like full hospital outfit.
And you're not like smiling.
It's like you look really miserable.
I felt awful at that moment.
That's why I took the picture.
You look like really depressed and my fear.
And then I see like a like a bunch of like long messages.
I'm like, oh, shit, Adam, try to kill himself.
My first thought I said that I swear, but here's the thing.
It's not, but it wasn't that I'm like, oh, Adam,
something that would kill himself.
My thought was, oh, Adam, try to kill himself.
That's really crazy.
I would have never expected that.
That was my first immediate thought when I saw that because of my facial expression,
your facial expression, the hospital, then like the text.
Oh, yeah, I guess what I said to you.
Yeah. Yeah.
Well, it was just like I skimmed it real quick and it just sounded really serious.
So like where I was like, I tried to kill myself.
But that part made you think maybe.
No, you just had like a bunch of like very serious things about like what to do
if you die and I'm just like, what the fuck?
And then you didn't tell me anything else, nothing.
And I was like, I don't even remember what I said.
No, you didn't say anything about what happened.
You were just like, I don't think I'm going to die.
But in case I do, like, well, here's X, Y, Z, instructions.
I was like, I was like, OK, I'm going to just try to go back to work.
And then I did.
I did go back to work, but I felt weird the whole time.
And then, OK, well, that's good at least.
Yeah, then, and I was like, well, I was like, let me just like reset for a second
before I decide what to do.
Then I met texting your wife.
And then I told her like Adam sent me this photo and didn't tell me anything else.
And the first thing she says is, oh, he would.
I really wasn't trying to be dramatic.
I just I know it was a serious situation, but I didn't know where I was.
At that point, they hadn't gotten the results back from the CT scan and all that.
Like, yeah, so, you know, I've said it before, I think on stream once that I get
that issue with my, I think it's like a diaphragm hernia where it locks up.
And I like have to lay on my back.
I think it's a hernia because if I lay on my back, it feels better.
And I hear that's I don't know, that's hernia stuff.
OK, but it's always in this left side kind of just next to my belly button.
And last night, I was yesterday afternoon, I started having what just felt like
bloating.
I just felt like, oh, I just ate something.
I don't know, ate too much, something just kind of felt like uncomfortable, but
then it progressively was getting more uncomfortable.
And then eventually, like I was just in our living room for writhing around in pain.
And I couldn't talk.
I couldn't think Casey's like trying to ask me, like, do we need to go to the hospital?
I have no idea what's going on.
I was just in so much pain.
Wow.
It was, it was intense.
So she drove me into the hospital.
So that basically they ended up doing like cat scan, figured out like it's not, it wasn't.
My fear at the moment was that that hernia, it can lead to strangulation of the intestines.
Like if your intestine gets up through there, it can strangulate and eventually it can
like burst and then it's like life threatening, like the toxins and your body and all that stuff.
So that was my fear.
And I think that was the last thing I told Casey before I couldn't really communicate.
Was like, if it's, if it's actually, if it's strangulated, like that's really bad.
So anyway, they did a cat scan.
It was just my intestine.
My fallen testins were very inflamed.
They think it's viral, no hernia issue, no anything else.
It was just really, really painful for a couple of hours.
They put me on morphine and then I calmed down.
I couldn't breathe.
Like I, just the way I was breathing, I wasn't trying to, but I was just like hyperventilating myself.
Yeah.
Like I was completely, it was bizarre.
I was like very dehydrated for some reason.
All my muscles were cramping.
And I was just like trying to get into a position on the hotel on the hospital bed that didn't hurt.
And it was awful.
But I'm alive.
And I'm fine.
Today, I feel great.
Are you on any medication today?
Uh, I mean, just Ivy Pro, but they've given, they prescribed me some like narcotics.
Yeah.
Uh, but I'm not taking them.
I don't think I need to.
I, I slept really good.
So they gave me another random morphine before I went to bed.
And I slept with it and I thought I would.
And then this morning I was expecting to wake up in pain and I didn't.
So I just got done working out.
Really?
Drinks, I don't have a liquid diet for a couple of days.
Uh, but like planning on business as usual at this point, that's crazy.
Considering I thought you were dead yesterday.
Yeah.
I thought like I thought it was, I really did think it was the hernia or something.
I thought it was going to be something serious.
And then I was going to not be able to compete.
Like I've got this tournament.
I'm that's what I was thinking too.
I was like, he's definitely not doing that.
Yeah, no, I'm doing it.
I'm doing it.
I'm playing it too.
Um, yeah, no, I'm alive.
I feel good.
Have you, uh, have you been on morphine before?
Is that your first time?
That was my first time.
Yeah.
So how good does it feel?
You know, they told me like all these things to expect.
Like you might feel nauseated and I felt warm or cold.
I don't remember.
I didn't really feel anything.
It's just the pain, the relief from the pain was all that I cared about.
Like I fell asleep at some point because I was just like the first time I'd been
able to stop breathing really, it was like not deep breathing.
It was like a shallow kind of in the middle of my breath range.
Cause if I exhale completely, I hurt really bad and if I inhaled completely.
So it was like, I was kind of bouncing my breath in there and making these weird
grounds, man, I was, I wish you could have seen me, the people at the hospital.
I don't even know who all experienced it, but, uh, they, they realized, even
though I wasn't bleeding or whatever, that it was pretty serious.
They were rushing me around.
Cause I was, it was just like been over.
I could not move.
I couldn't think I couldn't communicate.
It was awful.
Yeah.
It's crazy that like in certain parts of your body, if something happens, it's
just like instantly goes to max pain.
And it might not even be related to how serious it is.
It's just a type of thing.
Oh, yeah, it was.
It was 10 out of 10 for me.
That was as much pain as I can imagine being in, which is weird for it to just be like,
you're fine.
I mean, it just, it felt like someone was just inflating my intestines and they were
going to explode at some point.
Oh my God.
And like they did nothing I could do about it.
It was just, it was right in the middle there.
It sucked.
Yeah.
It's a, I remember.
So Alan had like a minor surgery, but he had like a pancreatitis, uh, that
effect from her, something like that.
And I remember him describing.
So he was stuck in the hospital for a long time.
I think it was like over a week, maybe two weeks or something, but they gave him that
button that like adds more morphine to whatever you can give it yourself.
Yeah.
And he was like, he was like, I totally get addiction now because one, he said, it felt
like so good.
I think just yeah.
I mean, he could just press a button and like feel really good.
Like the most direct form of just like whatever that, like psychology thing.
You're just like training yourself to.
Yeah.
That loves dog.
Exactly.
So he was just like, I totally get this.
Like this just felt, he just felt so good.
Um, I have an issue where most painkillers give me crazy amounts of nausea.
Um, and some people are like that.
Yeah.
So they, they prescribed these, these painkillers.
And they also prescribed zofram, which is like a nausea medicine.
Yeah.
Because I guess it causes a lot of that.
I just don't, I don't like nausea.
I don't want to mess around with nausea.
So if as long as I be prophin keeps, yeah, I feel pretty good today.
Like I expected, I'm not going to eat any food for a while just because I don't want
to take a chance at passing through there and really hurting.
But I expected to be in, in a bad situation today.
Like they told me the doctor first said, I think he said like seven days.
It takes to clear up these viral infections.
He said most of the pain should be like 48 hours.
So I was expecting today to be pretty awful, but it's been, it's been good.
Was there like, like gas involved?
Like, was that why a lot of the pain?
Was there a pain from that?
I don't know.
There hasn't been gas involved that I'm aware of.
Like that's what it felt like.
Kind of like the most extreme gas pains in your intestines.
You can imagine.
Yeah, but there was like no up or down signs of it, if that makes sense.
Yeah, gas pains are crazy because it's just like that could be some of the worst pain
you experienced, but it's from something like so trivial and stupid.
It's just like something is pushed like gas is pushing a part of your body
against something that it shouldn't be touching.
That's like some of the worst pain you can possibly get.
Yeah.
So I think last night, I, when they sent me home after the second
anamorphine, I didn't feel nauseated, but I threw up a lot on the way home.
I think that probably helped me because whatever I had eaten that I was throwing
up wasn't going to go through my small intestines and it wasn't going to, like that area.
They said it was like a specific area that was so inflamed and it was on my left side.
So it's like when the food gets to that part of your intestines, that's when the pain hits, I guess.
So I threw up a lot and I don't think there's any food left in my system.
And I think that helped.
I think that's why I'm not really dealing with anything today.
That makes sense.
What would happen if you had like hot sauce right now?
Or like some kind of.
Oh, man, yeah, I have no idea.
I don't want to, I don't want to find out.
I don't have any, I don't have any Indian food for like the next week.
Yeah, no, I probably won't.
Yeah.
I wanted to.
So he said clear liquids today.
I guess this thing clear, this is dandy blend.
It's very black, but I was thinking like, Oh, cool.
I love like watermelon juice.
I've been drinking a lot of those melod drinks in case it's like no fruit juice.
I know if I have to go a whole day without eating food.
I can't even have stuff I want.
So that sucks.
I love soups.
Like I love like, like a lot of Asian soups are clear.
I think like, uh, or I don't know if that's something I've asked you.
She's making me a bunch of broths.
Yeah.
Nice.
Yeah, I actually don't mind that at all.
It's a one I genuinely like them.
And two, it just reminds me of being home sick from school, which is like, oh, yeah.
Kind of a nice man.
Whenever you're sick.
Yeah.
I remember like noodle soup and crackers and yeah.
Yeah, that's a good time.
Yeah.
And then ginger ale for some reasons.
It's like if you're sick, drink a ginger ale.
Why do it?
Yeah.
I think ginger is supposed to be good for your for your stomach.
Maybe.
Yeah.
But I'm pretty sure that the process of making ginger ale like gets rid of all the ginger.
Mm.
They like boil it or something.
I forgot what it is.
Yeah, that makes sense.
Yeah.
The so I keep bringing it back to jujitsu, but the the competition Saturday, the thing
that sucks the most is well, I mean, maybe it won't be a big deal.
But I was originally I cut down from a hundred or two hundred and eight pounds.
I was down to one ninety one because the division, you have to weigh in your
G you have to weigh a hundred ninety five or less.
So I'm trying to compete in that division.
But the whole time I'm cutting down and I eventually get to that weight, there's
nobody else in my bracket.
So my age and my weight, I was like in a single bracket, eventually someone did
join the bracket, but I don't want to compete with one other person.
I just can't stomach the idea of like losing my only match and standing on
the podium in second place.
You just can't do it.
So I really didn't want to compete in just just with one other person.
So then I had to move up and wait to get into a division that has four or five
people, which is two oh eight.
So then I go from one ninety one and I climb back up to one ninety nine because
I don't want to be at the bottom of my division.
Right.
So I've put on like six, seven pounds over the last few weeks.
And now I'm probably going to lose five pounds and just not eating for two days.
It's like I can't get my weight where I want it to be.
Wait, but if you're, can you not compete in a division if you're too light?
Oh, no, I can.
Yeah, I can be in the two eight.
It could be a hundred ninety pounds.
This can just be 10 pounds lighter.
And everybody, I don't want that.
I don't know.
It's stupid because it's white belt.
And I feel like all the people who really do jiu-jitsu and actually no jiu-jitsu
are probably like chuckling at me.
Like I'm cutting weight for a white belt tournament.
But I take everything I do very seriously.
You know this about me.
I don't, I don't mess around.
So yeah, well, I'm glad you're alive and I'm shocked that you're just as good as you are today.
I am too.
I couldn't believe I didn't wake up in the night.
Like I thought the first round of morphine only lasted like an hour.
I don't know if they didn't do very much, but I started having pretty serious pain
after an hour, hour and a half, something like that.
So when they gave it to me last night, I mean, we came straight home and I went to bed,
trying to go to bed while I still had it in my system.
I, but I expected I'd wake up in the night with serious pain and just have a rough night.
I slept so good.
It's probably the best I've slept in a while.
I don't know what that's about morphine.
I don't know.
Yeah, I just eat morphine every night.
That's all you're doing.
You should be sleeping.
You should make a threat on morphine.
Oh, Jesus.
People are using morphine so wrong.
Oh, man, I won't, I won't do that.
Do you ever in situations like this, do you ever think about how all these painkillers
are like somewhat of a recent invention and then you imagine people in the Civil War
like getting their leg amputated and they're like, here's some whiskey
and like a belt to bite on and just like how like we are not the same species as
those people, like the things they went through.
That is just crazy.
And then the other side of it is I also think about if I like play back my life
without like any kind of modern medicine, I would have died like eight times already.
Oh, for real, you've had some like close calls or I guess I don't think about
modern medicine and what all it's just just think about like food poisoning.
I don't think I've ever had food poisoning.
Really?
You've never like gotten sick and thrown up or I've gotten sick and thrown up.
I guess maybe it was food poisoning or anything that lasted like more than a
couple day like like a two day food poisoning.
Maybe that's when I get sick that often.
I remember having the flu a lot growing up or like even that that probably would
have killed you.
Yeah, I guess.
Yeah.
A lot of people died from the flu like beyond just the illness itself.
It's like, imagine, okay, so I think about the food poisoning thing, right?
I at least have constant access to water and like other stuff that I can eat
that I can stomach and like keep in my stomach.
If I didn't have access to that, I think I would have just died of dehydration or something.
Yeah, no, yeah, that makes sense.
It's crazy.
Like I would have, yeah, I wouldn't have made it.
I'm like the people that made it back then.
Man, they must have been like just a lot of bullets.
Yeah, the interesting.
Yeah, did they just never get sick or they just had really good immune systems?
Yeah, I guess maybe society was also simpler in a way where like I'm getting
illnesses carried over from China.
Like there's like, you know, oh yeah, the globalization of like how much we're
spreading stuff.
That's a good point too.
We need all the modern medicine.
Yeah, so it probably is a good simplicity to it stuff back then.
But even then it's just like even like high site, I say it's another big one.
Like if you had bad eyesight, you were just a useless person.
And like there's no room for that really.
So I saw this thing about it's like an anti-aging expert doctor guy.
But he they're working in some university lab and they've they've like been
regenerating site in mice, which is like a first.
Oh, wow.
They've no one's ever been able to like repair.
I stem cell or I what are they called the nerve?
Yeah.
The ocular nerves, yeah.
Yeah, nobody's ever been able to repair that, but they've got some treatment
that's working in mice or like turning blind mice to where they can
see, but it all came out of this research around like making cells reverse
aging and like these things that happen inside of cells.
Man, you learn anything about like cellular biology.
That'll blow your mind just like what's going on inside our body.
And these trillions of cell, it's just nuts.
Yeah, but there's like hope for that.
I guess people who are blind being able to see maybe someday.
I know it's not a hundred percent situations, but yeah, they have the site
and the the hearing restoration stuff.
Like they've made a lot of progress on that.
And I think it leads to so many unique opportunities to understand things.
I do remember watching this thing about people that had their site
restored after they were like already like five or six, you can like watch
them learn how to see and understand a lot about how the brain works.
They can kind of communicate and you can talk to them and you can teach them.
Yeah.
But yeah, like I think initially it's just a bunch of noise, like the
ability to see a face or a shape.
And so in the, in the thing, the way they would train the kids is they would
have a bunch of overlapping shapes, like a triangle, a square, whatever.
And they have to like trace with their finger, the outline of the triangle,
trace of their fingers outside, outline of a square.
Yeah.
So even though they can physically like they were getting the data into their eyes,
the ability to like recognize that shape as a distinct thing, that's like the
learning part of it.
Interesting.
And yeah, I think that it like teaches you a lot about how we learn to see
and how you can like teach a computer to see and kind of things like that.
Yeah, it's really crazy.
Like, imagine like babies are probably just like, what the hell?
Like the information is just like raw, like so raw pixel thing.
You can't like make any sense of it.
I imagine it's probably like, you know, those, uh, these were big in the 90s.
You remember those like images that were like, I think they're called stereo
gram images or something.
Oh, like magic.
Matt, yeah, exactly, it just looked like a bunch of noise.
But then if you stared at it and like focused in the right way, you would see the image.
What was that?
How did that work?
What were we doing with our eyes?
There was this weird thing you had to kind of cross them a little bit or something.
Yeah.
Like kind of focus.
You had to like adjust the focal, what you were focused on.
And then somehow that would, I don't know how it worked, but I, I bet that's how it
probably feels.
Yeah, as a baby, what if we could remember everything like going all the way back?
I wonder what kind of memories that we can't.
Yeah, probably.
There's some traumatic stuff when you're a baby.
Yeah.
No, site is like the most impressive of the senses, right?
Like in terms of brain processing power, everything I've heard.
Like art, the fact that we can see.
Yeah.
And I think like other animals don't, of course, animals can see is a big part of it.
But I feel like like my cats and my dog, I feel like they wait a site less than some
of their other senses where they're like, it's a lot more smell or sound based.
Yeah.
So I think humans are pretty different in that way.
I listened to, I don't remember.
It was Carpathi talking about the Tesla autopilot 2.0 stuff or I don't know if it's
2.0, but when they move to like raw photon data, they're training models off that stuff
instead of like actually turning it in an image and then training models.
It's just wild.
It's like basically making it a human brain at this point.
Yeah.
It's a, I mean, their approach has always been interesting.
It's like a, it's like a complete gamble.
But if they're right, they just crush everyone else and the fact that they're.
So their whole thing is they don't use Lidar.
So they only use cameras only site, right?
Yeah, which is obvious a lot harder theoretically possible because humans rely on just
site and it basically knocks a cost down by like, like $10,000 of the car or something
when you don't have those things.
Right.
And Lidar has gotten cheaper.
But if they do pull it off, then suddenly every other approach is just too expensive.
They just have like a, I don't know, like a 30% margin benefit of every other approach.
Yeah.
So that is like an interesting gamble and it makes sense because it's one of those things.
I mean, I think Elon Musk companies tend to go for the, the all or nothing thing.
And if they win, then it's just like, oh, we're now like 100 times better.
Yeah.
Walter Isaacson's book, Elon's biography came out.
I'm going to listen to it.
I don't know if that makes me something.
I don't know.
People, people get so offended if you.
Yeah.
I feel like mentioned Elon Musk, but I, I've listened to like every Walter Isaacson book.
Like literally he's my favorite.
Yeah, he's great.
I've only ever listened to Steve.
So Steve Jobs book by him was the first audio book I ever listened to.
And I was like, this was cool.
I like audio books.
Yeah.
But I haven't listened to anything else.
I did find it.
Let's just listen to Walter Isaacson, the Steve Jobs one.
Yeah.
So we were like kind of reminiscing on some of the Steve Jobs stuff.
It's crazy to me.
The thing I kept bringing it up was he's probably the first person at my age where I like remember
him existing in real life interacting with stuff that was happening.
And then he like became like a myth or like a legend.
Yeah.
And it's, it's interesting to be able to like relate those two things.
I definitely like miss him a lot.
I feel like he would with the loss of this happening now.
Like I would have loved to have his energy around.
Yeah, same.
Yeah, I can't like hear new Apple releases or then talk about products and not wonder like
where he would be at on all of it.
Oh, yeah, of course.
Just like the the thing that's coming in January, the vision.
Yeah.
Just have to wonder like how things would be different if you were still around.
Are you getting the new iPhone?
I don't think so. I'm selling like a, I heard the announcement.
It's like iPhone 15 is the new one.
Yeah, 15 and 15.
I'm on 12.
That's how out of touch I am.
Like I didn't realize how it is.
I thought I was like one behind.
I'm three behind.
This has got a 14.
I just don't even know at this point what I get from getting a new one.
Nothing.
It's just okay.
I switched to iPhone what I think maybe the end of the year.
Yeah, it wasn't that long ago.
But I am going to get the new one.
I'm just going to trade mine in.
I realized like I was just kind of doing all the math and I figure they must do it this way.
I think I'm just going to end up paying a monthly fee for the rest of my life to just have a phone.
Oh, maybe that's better.
That's just the way I look at it.
I think it simplifies things because.
Yeah, then you don't feel bad getting the new one because it's just like just.
Yeah, when they give it back to them,
I know they're going to do the most efficient thing possible.
Whereas previously I just have like a stack of phones that are like kind of collecting.
I just look at it and I feel bad about just having those waste.
Yeah, we always say we're going to like sell ours and we never do.
Yeah, because it's too much work.
So the easiest way to sell it is to trade it in as soon as you can.
Yeah, that makes sense.
So you just trade in the new and you take good care of it.
You trade it in.
So that's going to be my approach.
I think I want those new ones specifically for the USB-C thing I've been complaining about.
Oh, USB-C.
Okay, so that's what you get.
Yeah.
So now I want to get both of us iPhones.
Exactly.
Yeah, I'm like I'm making both of us upgrade.
So then we can just have only USB-C cables everywhere.
The AirPod Pro.
I think they have a new.
That's the issue.
Yeah, that's the issue.
You're going to have to do that too.
I was so excited that yesterday I was looking.
I was like in my kitchen and then I saw it was the AirPods plugged in and I was like,
"We're so good at this."
But just a one.
Just one.
That's the only one.
My mouse is officially USB-C now charging, my keyboard, USB-C, everything.
No more lightning cables.
Yeah, sounds nice.
The iPhone thing, I do feel bad taking pictures of our kids with my 12,
knowing how much better the cameras probably are, three phones later.
Like Casey's is newer.
I feel like her photos are probably better than the ones I take.
So that's the one, the camera thing usually is the thing that I get
suckered into buying a new phone.
Yeah, the camera thing's interesting for me because I feel like at this point,
and this is maybe completely made up and someone can tell me I'm wrong,
but to me, I feel like the raw hardware is like incremental or marginal.
And every version, it's just that they're doing like different processing
or like they're making, because it's like, it is very stylistically.
When you take a picture on your iPhone, it's not like a raw picture.
It's a raw picture plus like the Apple filters or like whatever they're doing to process it.
They do a lot of stuff.
Yeah, so it's like, it's like a style thing in a lot of ways.
So yeah, like her phone might take better pictures,
but it might like the hardware might not be that much.
It's more than she's better at taking pictures.
That's another thing.
I take them from like my face up here and it's like down on a 45 degree angle.
I'm really bad at pictures too.
I barely ever take pictures on my phone.
Also like I just don't, I just have pictures of Zuko on my phone and nothing else.
So that's it.
So my photo reel is so embarrassing right now, because my three-year-old
and Asa went through this a bit too.
He's going through the phase where the phrase he says like 150 times a day is,
take a picture, take a picture, like if he builds something, if he eats something,
take a picture of it.
He wants to remember that for some reason, that thing or if he's getting ready to take a bite,
like he won't take a bite of his suit until you take a picture of it.
So it like he gets a picture and it's pristine for him and then he takes a bite
and then it'll be like, take another picture.
He's just, it's all day long.
We're taking pictures.
So my photo reel is just the most random stuff.
I don't take real photos anymore.
I just take photos from my three-year-old.
Sometimes I pretend, if I'm being honest, I just like, got it.
Because he doesn't always ask the look.
What a betrayal.
Yeah, I know.
Sometimes he calls me on it though.
He'll be like, I'm going to see, I'm going to see the picture.
Like hang on, let me do this.
It's really annoying.
Well, he's like right for Instagram.
I'd be saying pictures of his food.
Oh yeah, there you go.
I mean, sometimes I think about it like, oh, he's savoring life.
He's capturing every moment.
And like, maybe we should be more like that.
But like, I don't know.
Here's my food and here's my food after a bite.
That's a little much for me.
I always forget to take pictures.
Not a habit I have.
I'm just like, I'm just like doing stuff.
And I'm like, I did it.
And then later, I'm like, oh, I should have taken a picture.
So it's just not a thing.
But yeah, I never really got into the camera stuff.
I use my phone.
This is such like an advanced piece of technology.
It's like so advanced, so crazy.
So many thousands of engineers and hours and whatever.
And yeah, billions of dollars.
And I just use it for Twitter.
It's like, I just scroll Twitter.
I check Discord.
And that's it.
There's so many advanced features in it that I just,
I'm just like, I don't really understand.
The notifications work.
I don't understand all these like different modes.
You can put it in and I just, I don't know, I don't use it.
Yeah, tons of stuff I won't ever get to.
I do use it pretty simply.
It's like, I check email.
Do you actually use email?
Oh, I'm an inbox zero person.
I'm always every morning.
Oh, you are.
Yeah.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, you're super human.
I pay.
Well, I don't even know how much.
Too much per month.
You pay for email?
Yeah, I pay for my email client.
Oh, for your email client.
It's even crazier.
Yeah.
Man, I am not an inbox zero person.
I am an inbox infinity person, which means I just skim.
I look through all the emails and if I find a good one, I open it.
Nice.
But the rest of it just builds to infinity.
To me, it's not rational.
Like, I don't think my life is materially different than what you're doing.
But to me, it's like a measure of how like every morning if I'm able to do that,
I feel like, okay, my life, I got a handle on my life.
Like, I'm at least doing this ritual every morning.
I'm on top of this thing.
Yeah.
And I don't, I don't have a handle on my life.
And I think part of the problem is, what I don't like about email is it's,
I can't control who sends me emails.
Okay.
Yeah.
So I get a lot of garbage and I'm bad about staying on top of it.
I don't, I'm subscribed.
I, every time I buy a new thing, I start getting their newsletter
and I never unsubscribe.
So it's like my inbox is not a thing I can control.
I just, well, I gave up on controlling a long time ago.
And now it just feels like it'll never be recovered.
Okay.
So here is a thing that I've wanted to build forever and never have.
So if you're out there, you people are out there always talking about,
here's my favorite tech stack.
Here's a chance to actually use it.
Hey, use it.
Yes.
Here's an idea for you.
I want you to integrate with Gmail.
So like connect my Gmail, every email that comes in,
move it out of my inbox, put it somewhere else.
At the end of every day, then meet one email
with the list of all the new senders that sent me stuff.
Then I can approve, like, yes, I'm down to get emails from this person,
not down for this one, down for this one after this one.
I love this.
My inbox is only going to have stuff.
It's like a front request.
The first email you sent me is a friend request.
I accept this.
And then from then on, I get yourself to my inbox.
Otherwise it's just good.
It's just like DMs.
It's like, I want people to build the same email DM,
if I don't know who they are, but I want to filter it.
I want to look through.
And that way, I'll never miss an important cold email from someone
because they'll come through.
Yeah.
Other services have this built in, like hay.com,
they call it the screener or whatever.
Yeah, whitelisting, exactly.
It's a whitelisting app.
It's built into hay.
It's like a screener.
It works this way.
But I don't want to switch.
Has that built in?
Yeah, I don't want to switch to a different email.
I think you can build this on top of Gmail where you just,
if you get an email from someone that I haven't seen before,
don't put it in my inbox.
People that are whitelisted, let it go through.
Is that simple?
I love it.
It seems like it should exist.
Yeah.
Because a lot of people use Gmail.
I will build it and I'll build it.
Someone else build it.
I will pay for it.
You have one user right here.
Oh, for sure.
Two users right here.
Right here.
Two users.
We'll sign up for the podcast account.
It can have one too.
There's three.
Yeah.
People always, yeah.
So if people are saying, can you do this with filters
and views in Gmail?
I have tried using all the features in Gmail,
like using the important thing, all that stuff.
I don't want something like machine learning AI-based.
I just want an explicit whitelist.
Nothing is really going to be that.
Like you said, every other platform, DMs work that way.
Yeah.
Who's going to do it?
Someone do it.
The Gmail stars and important, all of that stuff.
I don't use that either.
I used to have a big list of star emails
and then I realized I never went back and looked at it.
It's like bookmarks on Twitter.
It was like, I never looked at it again.
Yeah.
So that would just fix email, I think, for a lot of people.
I think so.
There you go.
Yeah.
I tried to get adam@hay.com when that wasn't available.
I was out on hay.
Just signed up.
Got it really fast.
Was Adam tailwind Adam?
Got it.
I don't think so.
Maybe.
I don't know.
Great question, actually.
If we have to rank all the atoms on tech Twitter,
like, what's your ranking?
Aww.
I'm last.
Well, I don't know.
There might be other atoms I don't know about on tech Twitter.
There are other atoms.
But, like, obviously, Wath and his number one.
Rakis is two.
You think he's out of you?
Oh, for sure.
He's been around a long time, right?
He's like, he's a guy.
You're calling him old?
No.
I'm just saying, like, Rakis has me on seniority by a lot.
And just on interesting tweets.
I don't tweet anymore.
So, like, I can't be a figure on tech Twitter if I'm not on Twitter.
Your ranking is going down by your peak.
I think you were number three, maybe.
Yeah, probably.
I can't think of another prominent atom.
There probably are some, and I'm just forgetting.
But I'll take number three.
Hey, I'm on the podium.
Yeah.
That's that meme.
It's that meme with a guy by in the metal.
Yeah.
That's strange, though.
Turk just asked if you got me on blue sky.
Remember blue sky?
That was fun.
Blue ski?
Blue ski and threads.
How's blue ski doing?
Actually, I saw an email that I was accepted to do it.
I tried that too.
What was up with that?
I don't know.
I've been on there for months.
Yeah, I got the same email address.
Yeah.
I hadn't checked blue sky forever, but it was just threads.
Anybody use threads?
I just opened threads.
And I'm curious to see who's posting on it.
So, I see, hang on.
They did add a way to see only your following.
But it's like, I always like, I'll get to the home button twice.
And you go to following.
There we go.
Hit the home button twice.
That's not very obvious.
Or something like that.
It's just not obvious.
So, Jason is still posting on there.
Wait, did I have a stroke yesterday?
Jason.
Jason, like sort?
Oh, yeah, okay.
I just didn't know you knew Jason.
Are you and Jason?
Are you close to Jason?
Not really, but we've interacted.
Okay, you've interacted.
Hey, there's a new next chance comp coming.
Yeah.
That's what you missed.
Yes, you're while you were dying.
That's what I was like.
That's what we started.
This first episode of this podcast was next year's comp recap.
Wouldn't it?
I think so.
Yeah, it was definitely clear.
I remember we did that terrible stream together,
where you kept putting the overlay on top of the place.
It was bad.
Yeah, it was really bad.
Yeah, next year's comp 2022 recap.
Look at that.
Wow, that feels like forever ago.
It does feel like forever ago.
That was like in the zero interest days.
Because remember that crazy...
Oh, yeah.
Remember how like insane that party was?
Or like just seemed to seem like everybody.
Everybody was there.
Yeah, no, that was October 22nd or 27th.
So they're having next year's comp win,
October 26th, one year later.
That's probably one year to the day.
Knowing Guillermo.
Yeah, it was like, yeah.
I got to say, the past two weeks, Guillermo
has gotten a lot better at Twitter.
Yes.
Oh, yeah?
I got to give him to him.
I didn't think he was bad at Twitter, I guess.
No, there was a few phases.
The first phase was him just getting really aggro and upset.
And like, it was just weird.
Yeah.
Because he's like...
I think at that point,
they didn't realize that they were like the incumbent now.
They were kind of still acting like the underdog,
but they're bigger than everyone.
Yeah.
Then there was a phase where he was just posting like
deep founder, deep founder insights.
But they were like, just not very good.
It was just like really basic trivial things.
In the past two weeks, I'm like, oh, run out of money.
Yeah, exactly.
It's like, ship fast.
It's important to ship fast.
You know how to ship like that.
But in the last two weeks,
I have liked a lot of his tweets.
Like they've been funny, a lot of them have been funny.
I feel like, oh, okay.
Like, I think he's learning to be himself.
And he actually has a personality.
Because prior to that, I was like, he's just some kind of robot.
Yeah.
He seems very like ascended.
Like he seems like a better human than me.
And I don't mean that condescendingly.
Just like, I couldn't be as good as Guillermo at life.
Like he's just seems very particular and regimented.
Yeah, no, he definitely is.
But you know, it's good to see he's got a persona.
Yeah, I got to check out Twitter and see his personality.
That sounds fun.
Yeah, because they launched that V zero thing.
Have you seen that?
Oh, yeah, I did see that.
I mean, I haven't played with it really.
Is it good?
No, we're all on the wait list.
We're all pretending like we got in, but we're on the wait list.
Oh, I think I am on the wait list.
That's what it was.
I thought I was going to play with it.
And then I had to get on the wait list.
Yeah, I'm sure I could DM someone.
But I don't want to come off desperate, you know?
I don't really care.
Just give me that one every one.
No big deal.
Just like, yeah.
Yeah, but people are playing with it.
So what do you have like a sense of like you saw it?
Does it feel relevant to you?
Does it feel like the step in the right way?
I mean, I guess like if AI could help me
never have to like write a form from scratch,
I feel like you're good at front end.
Like you're actually good at like you can whip up front ends
without just wanting to end up in a hospital.
But like every time I have to do something on the front end,
I just swear I'm never doing it again.
Like actually like making a form that does stuff
and validation and busy states and all that stuff.
I hate it.
I feel like you've gotten like a groove
and I feel like your console, the code looks really nice.
You know what you're doing.
I don't feel like I know what I'm doing.
So if it could help me do that, then yeah, I'm in.
Yeah, I think there's like a somewhat popular stack
they're optimizing for like React and actually I just tailwind
like a bunch of those things.
So I can see how if you're using that setup.
Oh, and also the shad's the end stuff, like it's component library.
Yeah, so the thing I've been thinking about,
and I think a lot of this AI stuff has really made me understand this,
which is how much aesthetics are like relative to their scarcity.
So there's been like so many phases of this, right?
Do you remember when like Bootstrap first came out?
Like Twitter Bootstrap.
Oh, yeah.
The day it came out, it looked insanely good.
Like so good, so modern.
And it got really popular.
And at some point you look, you started looking at Bootstrap
so they started looking terrible.
They looked exactly the same as they looked.
Yeah.
Two years ago, but they just started looking bad.
Even though that they looked fantastic, they came out.
Yep, they came out mid journey, right?
All those like crazy mid journey images that are like super realistic and stuff.
I initially was like, wow, it's all looks good.
It's definitely for me gone to a point where I'm like,
these look really like cheesy now or like kind of corny.
A lot of these images.
Yeah, I don't know what you mean.
So it's like, it's so clear to me that everything,
no matter how good it is in the moment,
just hard to look terrible when it becomes like extremely available to everyone.
So when I see this stuff in V zero, I'm like,
okay, Shatsun is still new.
And it looks really good.
Interesting.
But now I'm seeing all these designs and I'm like,
okay, now it has this like underlying air of like being generated or like,
what I just, it just does look cliche.
Yeah, yeah.
And I think the thing with design is it is a way to signal high effort.
And I think once that kind of goes away, you kind of lose that part of it.
Yeah, no, that's a great point.
Like you're not actually putting in the effort and the truth will eventually find you.
And people aren't even, people aren't even,
might not even be aware of it.
But subconsciously, I think that really is is the key,
the reasonest spend effort on design.
It makes sense that like aesthetic things like you think of clothing like style with clothes.
You think of like home decor, like all that stuff is so like,
it's fast moving.
It's cyclical.
It's the thing that looks good today will not look good in 10 years.
And you can kind of bank on it.
So it makes sense that there's something about aesthetics that don't stay.
There's not just a best is it's always sort of like in the context of the current setting.
Yeah.
Yeah, like the like the like the linear homepage.
Like when that came out, that was amazing.
But not everyone has that like dark thing with the,
with the window that pops up like this and like unblurs.
Yeah.
Everyone has that now and it just starts to look a little bit weird.
The other thing though is on the flip side, there are things that are timeless.
I mean, I just realized that when you said like home furniture,
I think there is like an underlying thing of like there's certain things that are just
always going to look really good.
Like the freaking Eames chair that everybody has.
Oh, yeah.
I bet you had that.
Do you know anybody that has one?
No, I'd like to go and Casey would not let me spend $5,000 on a chair.
Yeah, but like everyone just gets replicas.
Like no one gets.
Oh, really?
Who do you know that has one?
Because he said everyone, I've never seen one in the flesh.
Just like in movies and stuff.
Have you ever sat in one?
I never sat in one.
Yeah, a bunch of time.
Okay.
So here's a crazy thing.
We have this is the most random thing.
One time we were like rerouted through like some airport in Texas,
because we got like our flights got massive or whatever.
The lounge there had like a stupid amount of Eames chairs like what?
And they were like scattered.
Like people have moved them around.
They were kind of just like scattered all over the place.
And they're clearly replicas.
Like very few people really get like a legit room.
The real one, the real one.
Yeah, but it's like for that replica is still like,
you know, a thousand plus dollars.
So it's still like a very high quality piece of furniture.
Yeah.
And yeah, it's not it just looks good.
It looks good and it's always going to look good.
No, it's a good looking chair.
Yeah.
I'm definitely considered it at times.
Just put one in my corner.
I'm off. I just say, I feel like you would definitely have one.
That seems as heavy as you would have.
Things that people spend money on just for the sake of it.
Yeah, no, but I was saying it's like a timeless piece of whatever.
Yeah, no, that's a good point.
So what is the equivalent of that in the digital world?
I don't know if there is.
Like I'm wondering if it is there.
Digital could be different.
It might be something really unexpected.
Like it might be like Craigslist or like Reddit.
What about like Apple day?
I mean, they haven't really changed their design aesthetic.
Well, they used to be crazy skeu morphic, remember?
Oh, well, yeah, like so in their apps.
I'm just thinking like the Apple digital like web properties.
Like the white background, like they're kind of always
they've been like this for a long time.
Yeah, yeah, I think they're stuff is pretty simple.
Bordering on timeless.
The skeu morphism one of those is interesting
because I remember at the time,
I was really into like getting better design
and like nothing looked worse than something more fit.
Yeah.
And then someone posted a bunch of pictures recently and I was like,
oh man, that looks kind of good.
Yeah, where are we at on that?
Because I feel like it's cyclical.
People are like skeu morphisms, the worst.
And then they're like, oh, it's actually kind of nice.
Where are we at on that side?
Yeah, like I'm feeling it.
I'm feeling it come back.
So I'm looking at it.
I'm like, okay, I know what's happening, but I can't help it.
Like it just looks, it looks good to me.
There's something nice.
Yeah, I know what you mean.
Like the, if an Apple icon has like a nice like felt look to it.
I'm like, yeah, the old textures.
I remember just like looking through so many textures making websites at one point,
just like the whole background be like that little like,
you go like almost feel it just by looking at it.
Can I shift gears like a lot?
Yes.
Just I can't not say something, which I don't want to, I don't want to be negative.
But if you ever played with Svelte.
No, but they're doing their big announcement.
Well, yes, I have played with it.
And they're doing their big announcement today.
What's their big announcement today?
Nobody knows.
Oh, for real? What timing?
Exciting announcement.
So tell us your take on Svelte.
Just for them to like, yeah, make it irrelevant.
Well, look, I mean, this week is the first I've played with Svelte.
So I have literally like days of experience with Svelte.
So you can just ignore everything I say.
Okay.
And I know people are really passionate about Svelte.
So like, as soon as I say anything negative, I'm going to get attacked.
But this is just a little thing.
I just feel like I'm getting hit in the head with transitions and animations
everywhere I turn in the docs.
Svelte, it's good at animation.
Motion, transitions.
This is constantly, I'm like trying to learn how to do basic state stuff.
And it's like, oh, did you know you can use this animation thing?
It's pretty cool.
Like the advanced felt go to the docs.
Advanced felt the first like three sections are about animation.
I'm not even kidding you.
Yeah, apparently.
That's funny, but I was going to say there's an explanation for that.
Like, do you remember those crazy things that the team would build?
The visualizations.
Yeah, like those articles were insanely, yeah, insanely impressive.
So I get why that there's an obsession with that.
Yes, Scott.
Now I was going to say I think to think today is they're making it more like solid.
And they're adding like signals and stuff.
Yeah.
Okay, cool.
So the reason I used Svelte is so we're rebuilding this huge site that's like
very page driven.
Just lots of it's very multi page.
Okay, I don't care if multi pages and a thing.
It's very multi page.
So there's just lots of pages, very little interactivity.
But the bits of interactivity that there are,
it feels real bad just writing vanilla JS.
Like that's what we started doing and we've still got a lot of it.
But at some point it starts to feel like, man, it'd be really nice to use
a little more modern front-endy JavaScript stuff here.
And I felt like Svelte, Svelte.
I felt like it spiritually aligns with our like just progressively enhancing little bits
of the page because it's compiled, right?
There's no runtime, I think.
Yeah.
It just seems like to me, if I like throw solid in there or worst or react in there,
it just feels like such overkill for like an avatar menu.
Like I don't feel like we need this very big runtime framework.
Yeah.
But then I don't, I don't actually know how much I'm gaining using
something like Svelte versus solid in terms of bundle sizes, in terms of
this spiritual alignment that I feel.
Do you think Svelte is a good use case for that or is it no?
Like just you felt if you're using Svelte kit and it's not a sprinkle in kind of thing.
Yeah.
I think with these frameworks, you should just go with the API that you feel
makes sense to you.
So because the reason I say that is if you look at, so yes, Svelte,
they like the premise of Svelte is a compiler can figure out
all the when this happens to do this other thing at real time.
So that there's no, there's no, there's no like reactive runtime that needs to exist.
But at a certain size, you end up duplicating a lot of stuff where a
reactive runtime would actually end up being smaller.
So it's kind of like, yeah, both of these, I mean, realistically,
the comparisons between Svelte and Svelte, I think the other ones are not really relevant.
Guys for the type of thing, like they're both written by such like good authors.
Like they're both like so optimized and so excellent that I feel like
from that angle, like you're not going to go wrong.
So it just comes down to like which model clicks for you better.
So I will say getting into Svelte, it feels so foreign to me.
Having come from like a react background, I feel like solid would feel much more natural,
just like to write a solid component.
Is there something about, so I keep saying progressive enhancement.
Is that even a thing anyone should care about?
Should I just forget about caring about that?
Like we have some very simple like forms on the page.
And right now we're just posting, like it just really,
because it's not even like staying on that page when you post.
So for like off flows, it's going to end up redirecting.
Yeah.
I don't care if it's just a form and it has a post action and whatever.
But then if I want to sprinkle in like some validation and I want to come in and say,
well, which JavaScript I can make this experience a little better,
is that like a thing that I should actually care about?
Or should I just make the form in JavaScript prevent default and just like do the thing
on click or on submit?
Like do you have opinions on progressive enhancement as a concept?
Yeah.
I think I tend to go to kind of what you said.
I tend to go to both extremes.
So it's actually the exact same situation.
So we're using the same off thing.
For the login form or the console, it's just a form post and a post,
some release and redirects.
I don't even bother doing any JavaScript stuff.
I did throw in some validation in there, but it's not.
It's just the HTML like input attributes.
Yeah, that's what I use like the email, the built in.
Yeah, exactly.
So I'm like, that's good enough for this.
And then because I'm just using like barebone solid,
I don't have like a really solid framework to do real progressive enhancement.
But there's like a nice unified API, nice form component that like can switch between both modes.
So I just go to the other extreme where I'm just like,
I still use like form data and I try to like use all the native stuff.
Yeah.
But realistically, it's not going to work.
JavaScript interaction.
Yeah, it's going to be JavaScript.
So I think for me, that's fine.
Part of me does wish that I had some of those things in there.
But I don't think it's rational.
I think it's just like, I just know that I'm technically doing something wrong.
So I feel bad about it, but it's not really going to make a difference for anyone.
Exactly.
Everyone's got JavaScript running.
I don't know.
That's safe to say, right?
Well, the argument is that until your JavaScript loads, everyone is a no JavaScript user.
So again, for us behind like a B2B app behind the login,
like we don't really have to worry about that.
Like nothing is going to work until the JavaScript loads.
So there's no progressiveness there to begin with.
But yeah, for you guys, like let's say there's like a button and it takes five seconds to become
interactive.
Like how?
Yeah, yeah.
I gotcha.
But then again, you're using Astro.
So yeah, I guess, yeah, I guess it still won't work until the JavaScript loads.
That might matter for you.
No, yeah, I'm just thinking like what's so you were talking about like the avatar menu.
So like when you're logged in, you hit the button and then like some kind of drop down.
Well, that's like more of a good CSS thing, isn't it?
I mean, yeah, you could do it like with checkbox and CSS states.
It's just that there are some benefits, I think, to dipping into JavaScript for accessibility.
It's just like, I don't want to build all that by hand.
And there's like vanilla JavaScript turns out there's not vanilla JavaScript component libraries.
There's not vanilla JavaScript anything.
Yeah.
It everything assumes you're using a framework or like even a meta framework.
So it's very difficult to find like, I just need good.
Like I want Radix.
I want it for vanilla JavaScript so bad.
I just want to build like maybe that's dumb though.
Maybe I feel like the infatuation with vanilla JavaScript is maybe my problem.
I should just like forget that and say, but if you saw our use case, I feel like our use case,
we really don't need a client side like full framework because we just do so little.
There's literally like three little things on the page that have any JavaScript involved.
Yeah.
I do think you might be a little biased in that your framework experiences react,
which is very heavy because I think both with solid and spelt.
I find the framework kind of disappears like with solid oftentimes I'm just like
document query selector things and like doing like very vanilla JavaScript.
The only part time I dip into solid is for the templating.
So I might want to use JSX and for like, okay, if I do need some reactive state,
which again, oftentimes like the stages lives in the DOM.
So I don't really need to do that.
Like I built like combo boxes or like our command bar, very little solid involved.
Like the solid builds, I use the JSX part to build a template, but then from there,
like moving stuff around, I'm just querying the DOM and like activating things and adding
attributes and stuff that we used to do in jQuery.
It is an Astro makes it so easy to just like load a component from one of these client libraries,
hydrate it like that experience with Astro is really great.
Yeah, so I think you should use one and you shouldn't feel too bad because it's not,
like I said, both these options are like so optimized.
I don't think that it's really going to create any kind of burden.
So let me throw another very esoteric, I don't know.
I forgot we're on a podcast here, but now I'm just asking you questions.
But I was talking with an engineer on my team yesterday about the situation where we're
on the client, where we need to fetch session information to do some stuff with it on the client.
But there's like multiple components now that need that.
Well, there's just two, but there's two components that need it.
And it's like, whoa, global state in an app without like a framework.
What do you do?
Yeah, no, that's, I mean, that's, I think the limitations of at least Astro as it existed
until this new stuff.
Oh, wait, in the new stuff.
What do I do?
Is there something I'm not thinking about?
Yeah, so if you, if you have global state on a single page, like they have the whole
nano store thing, right? Oh, what is this?
This sounds perfect.
Nano store.
Thank you for saying those words.
There's a qualifier here though.
Okay.
So nano store is how you, you can just create little pieces of shares tape between islands.
This is exactly what I need.
Yes.
So that's what you, that's what you would do.
Thank you.
But if you're using solid, if solid is the component, the framework you choose for your
components, it makes no sense.
Use nano store because solid chips with their own primitives that work better.
Like they have their own store concept.
But the same thing.
But yeah, for, for, if you have these components, you need to sync data.
Yeah, the nano source thing is.
This is awesome.
How do I stay on top of all the cool stuff?
I just found that from the Ashrow docs.
Like when you were looking in the Ashrow docs just for funsies?
No, I built, I built something with Ashrow like our.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, okay.
I forget.
This is, this is a while ago.
Okay.
I don't know if you reached for Ashrow.
I thought you were never going to be a multi-pager.
No, because we, we have our little small business, right?
Please.
Oh, that's right.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
I'm blanking.
I, I knew this.
I knew this.
Yeah.
So we had the, some, something similar where like, like a cart, like the cart status of
your cart, the state of the cart needs to be visible in multiple components.
We just threw that in there.
But the issue is when you navigate, that gets blown away.
Because it's a full page refresh.
So, yeah.
So we could store it in local storage or, like, we could like, yeah.
Or you can use Ashrow's like new SPA type stuff, but.
So how, yeah. So we played with the view transition stuff.
That's where you're talking about, right?
There's view transitions, but there's also, like, SPA mode, where, like, now getting
the 22 pages doesn't do a page refresh.
What?
How am I not?
I feel like I'm an Astro power user, and I don't know half the things you can do.
Astro, what'd you say?
What are the words that you said?
I don't know what they call it.
I mean, just bomb mode.
Did you go check the blog post for 3.0?
If you just read that, it has, like, it mentions all of these things.
Yeah, I'll do that.
Yeah.
Huh.
Sorry, when I said I'll do that, I literally started doing that.
I should probably not do that right now.
We do need to get off to some point.
Just hear free.
Yeah.
But yeah, again, like, I don't, that stuff is kind of, like,
got too complicated for me to, like, stay on top of, like,
the 3.0 is a lot of cool stuff in there.
But I'm just like, this is a lot.
Like, I don't think I can digest this right now.
You're going to stick with your, your spas.
My spas, and then I'm still really liking the direction
solid start is going.
It's taking a while before it's going to, like, really come out and impact the industry.
But what I love about it is you have these two extremes on the team, right?
You have Ryan, who is very, you know, the classic, like, framework creator,
like super into, like, all these little micro things.
And you have Dave, who, uh, he is, like, the perfect person to build the last mile.
Like, he has a consulting company.
He does real projects for real clients, really focus on enterprise things,
like really tries to get all the things that you need.
Like, he has a clear vision, all the things that you need to have.
Some of this actually go big beyond just, like, a little bubble.
So there's like this great balancing force of the two of them where Ryan likes that
because Dave does all the work that Ryan is not interested in.
But yeah, I'm like, again, it's an uphill battle and there's a lot of things in the way.
But when I see that team, I'm like, oh, that actually reflects what I,
if I, if I could, like, create a team that, like, is building in front of a family,
that's, like, what they would look like.
That's what they would look like.
Yeah.
Because some of these other teams, like, they're all, like,
obviously impressive people across the board and all these places.
But, uh, I definitely am missing that, like,
oh, as boring as it sounds, like, building for enterprise, enterprise-type use keys.
Yeah.
So that's kind of--
Got context.
Yeah.
Forming the decision-making.
I have more questions now about Solid Start.
Yeah.
I'm a little out of the loop.
You know what I mean?
No one else will know what I mean.
It's fine.
I'm a little out of the loop.
Uh, is Solid Start still doing anything with Astro or is Tanner doing anything with Astro?
What's that story?
Okay, so, uh, there was-- the history of Solid Start was they built it on feet.
Then they were, like, we're wasting so much time with, like, adapters for, like,
Vercel and SST and Netlify and, like, why are we doing that work?
Let's just try to build on top of someone else.
So initially, they were exploring doing it on top of Astro.
They did get a prototype working, um, but then they chose to go with Nitro,
which is the-- from the next community.
I'm sorry, what?
You know what I mean?
Nitro?
Nitro, no, the world is just, like, like, layers on top of layers on top of layers,
but I imagine that's probably what it felt like.
Yeah, but similarly, like, is it similarly on top of feet?
Yeah, so, V is the core.
The Nitro adds a bunch of useful things on top of V, like, all the adapters,
deploy different places.
They also have, like, like, the storage engine to, like, store data and cache stuff.
So, kind of, like, the bare things that a lot of these frameworks do have in common.
And it allows Solid Start to go back to being more of, like,
a minimal thing than a meta framework.
It's just, like, a thing that sits on top of Nitro.
So, next three is also built on top of Nitro.
Next is the view thing.
The view version.
The view meta framework does have a Nitro.
So, they built it for Tanner is still doing his thing,
his React-based meta framework on top of--
Bling?
Is it called Bling?
Like, something else entirely.
Oh!
Bling is just a way to, like, statically extract some stuff.
So, it's an actual project that's, like, still has a future?
Bling should be invisible to anyone.
Like, no one really should really know what that is.
Okay.
It should just show up in places that you don't really know is powered by.
So, he's doing his own thing, which is going to be a combination of React,
a React meta framework on top of Nitro.
Okay.
So, I'm excited about this because, again, then we can just support Nitro really,
really well, and then we support both Nux and Solid.
I'm still waiting for someone to do a--
I mean, it might be Tanner.
I don't know how much he's going to do the RSC stuff,
but I'm waiting for someone to do, like, a V-based React meta framework.
So, Remix is also doing an RSC thing.
And I actually-- I'm really excited for their take.
Ryan Florence explained to me, like,
it's actually-- he's, like, the way it's positioned now is--
it's really a replacement for Express, but it can do, like, the front-end stuff
really, really well.
And I kind of like that thinking, like, it's--
Yeah.
That makes a lot of sense.
Like, a lot of people use Express.
Like, there's no reason not to use this in the same way.
And you just get, like, a much better front-end experience.
But they're not-- they're, like, going the other way of, like,
trying to make it really, really low-tooling.
So, they're, like, just--
they're not even requiring a bundler anymore.
Like, you can just do raw Remix code, and you don't even need to bundle it.
You can't use a bundler.
But so, they're not building on top of V or anything like that.
They're going the other way.
But you want to see-- you want to see a react
meta framework built on top of V.
It's not too late for next, right?
Let's just--
No, it is too late for next.
They're making it good.
It's just a band-- no.
Just a band and all the way back stuff, the turbo pack stuff.
Just breaking change for everyone.
Oh, they're so big, man.
Like--
They are.
They're always going to be so big.
Yeah, I think so.
Like, that size of--
Just when you achieve default status,
well, you're the default for something.
It's just impossible to compete with.
It's, like, so annoying for everyone.
I'll think about how annoying it is for Remix.
Like, they can do everything 10 times better, it will not.
Just so hard to displace them.
Yeah, and I didn't even mean that, like,
Vercel was doing anything wrong.
I just wondered, like, from the zero interest rate phenomenon standpoint,
like, will all organizations get smaller, or is this sustainable?
Maybe it's fine.
I mean, in terms of--
Well, when I say big, I spent terms of usage.
Oh, I was talking, like,
how big of an organization, and just how big the production is,
and how big everything.
Yeah, I don't know about that.
I think that can probably shrink.
But, yeah, usage-wise, it's just like, look at the numbers.
It's like, they're still growing.
What numbers?
What numbers do you--
We always look at MPM trends,
which is the delos per week.
So next year, specifically, you're talking?
Yeah, it's like, every chart of front-end frameworks
doesn't include Next.js, because then it just--
Because everyone's like, one single one at the bottom.
And then on top of that, like,
Vercel, you can deploy AstroSight.
You can deploy all these other frameworks.
You can deploy to Vercel.
I wonder, are there any numbers on that?
Like--
I think-- OK, so more-- and this is crazy,
but I guess this is a crazy founder type of thing
I finally have tapped into.
I think we can beat Vercel in terms of number of deployments.
Deploying stuff, yeah.
I think it's a hard--
it's very low probably succeeding,
but there is-- I do see a path to--
There's a path.
--having more Next.js deployments
outside of Vercel than inside Vercel.
I wouldn't be surprised if that wasn't already true,
because all these big companies use Next.js,
a lot of them do.
A lot of them don't deploy on Vercel.
They're probably deploying some kind of shitty container
in their infrastructure.
Yeah.
So I don't know what the actual numbers are,
but I think if we can get to parity on--
we can get to parity on some of the quality of life things
that Vercel has, we can beat them in other places
that are kind of important.
Like, already on the performance side,
like, it's weird.
I don't understand why this is the case,
but OpenX deployment is faster than a standard Vercel
in Next.js deployment.
And I don't understand why, but I did the benchmarks.
Yeah.
And it's significantly different.
So--
Yeah, I feel like the enterprise angle too,
like, I feel like people are much more likely
to deploy into their own AWS account at certain scale
than use Vercel.
So that's why I think already there
might be more deployments out of Vercel than inside Vercel.
And yeah, we just don't have information on that data.
And then there's the other side of things where--
it's just hard for them when they have to host everyone's sites,
whereas, like, if you think about us,
we technically get--
for everyone that deploys Next.js site through us,
we leverage AWS as free tier.
We're not paying for the fact that you're deploying through us.
If we want to implement, like,
something that's kind of compute-intensive,
that's fine.
They're just paying for it.
Each user opts into that feature.
We're not responsible for the cost across our whole--
like, the warmer thing we built for Next.js,
which a few people got upset about,
Vercel could never implement a warmer,
because they have to pay the cost for that.
But then, for us, it's different.
So I think we can beat them in some of those situations.
And mixing in--
like, we are starting to steal a lot of people
mixing other constructs with their Next.js,
like, adding in a queue, adding a database, all these things.
So they're, like, the whole picture of app development.
Like, all the other things you need.
Yeah.
And, again, Vercel is adding those things.
They're adding a database.
Yeah.
But it's, like, it's a very different type of experience.
And, again, they're liable for the free tier
on each one of those things.
So--
I mean, startups build on AWS.
It's just what they do.
It feels weird to me to think that there's some world
where they want, like, I just--
if I were betting on things,
I'm betting on startups continuing to build on AWS.
There's this overwhelming force you have to work against,
which is every startup that, like, is somewhat competent
has access to, like, $50,000 free, or whatever the--
Yeah.
I forgot what--
Activated or whatever.
All those things.
So your thing has to either be billable through AWS,
or it has to be, like, so much better
that you're willing to pay outside of it.
Which happens sometimes.
Like, I saw someone from Railway Tweet today that
they had a customer that just turned down,
like, thousands of dollars from Azure to deploy through them,
which is, you know, good for them for pulling that off.
But also, it's Azure.
I would turn down millions of dollars from Azure as well.
But it's just hard to compete with that.
So that's why I'm, like, I'm not saying we're guaranteed,
but I see a path that if we can make some of the infrastructure,
like, 10 times better just by moving off of CloudFormation
and then CDK and all that stuff that we were expecting to create.
You are moving off of it?
Still planning?
We probably will be the next big effort
that if we're able to kick off another big effort
the next couple of months, it'll probably be figuring out
what our angle on that is, whether it's
supporting a different deployment engine, what we currently have,
whether it's, like, targeting a whole new market,
with, like, a new product.
Like, we don't know what it's going to be.
But if I think about just the next year as a user,
how good can I make that experience?
It's that there's nothing to go 10x gap
from where it is today to where it could be.
I think if we close that, you know, we could see a lot more usage.
Yeah, that's awesome.
I realize now we're at the point of the podcast
where I'm trying to do other things.
So we should probably--
The things that I'm trying to do are for the podcast.
I just realized I didn't tweet out that we have new episodes.
I think I've missed, like, the last two.
You're going to fire me at some point.
You're going to find an actual--
Well, I thought you were just going to die yesterday.
So I was like, OK, I guess I got to take it to my own.
Would you have carried on?
If I died, would you have carried on with the podcast?
Just, like, guests?
Well, I would have definitely, like,
tried to create a ton of attention using your desk.
Oh, yeah.
You should.
You're out of my permission.
Yeah.
I know you'd appreciate that.
A Farewell episode where you, like, become a memorial.
Yeah, yeah.
You know what a montage is.
I feel like, before 100 episodes,
I feel like that'd be over the top.
Once we've got 100 episodes in, I feel like then--
I mean, there's, like, a bond.
Not people know who you are.
Like, outside of the podcast, like, you know,
you've been around for a while.
So I think you've been around for a while.
I'm not as long as I'm Raka, so I'm better at it alone.
Yeah.
I was like, I have to find a new host or a new host.
Who, let's-- real quick, last thing.
Who would your new host be?
I don't know.
Another Adam?
I think--
Oh, here's a Raka?
You know what we would do?
We would have, like, an American Idol-style competition
to figure out.
Oh, yes.
The next host of tomorrow.fm.
I love it.
Oh, man.
Yeah, I'm trying to think of who good candidates.
There's probably-- oh, no, I don't want to think about this,
because there's probably people that would be way better at this.
Can you actually just die?
Like, this sounds a good idea.
Hey, Robert.
Yesterday, there was a moment in the middle of the extreme pain
where I was like, if I die, at least I won't hurt right now.
This--
I know.
I would have done anything.
It, like, literally anything to get rid of that pain
in that moment.
It was so bad.
Yeah.
Isn't it crazy to-- like, in that moment, you're probably like,
oh, OK, I'm, like, learning.
This is how I die.
Like, I was curious about how I'm going to die.
And, like, this is how it's going to be.
Like, I didn't expect this, you know?
Yeah, no, that's a good point.
I guess I didn't have any thoughts like that.
OK, one next time.
I was sobbing.
I was, like, just literally uncontrollably sobbing
in a chair in the hospital.
And I'm like, can I lay down?
Someone give me a bed.
Aren't there beds in hospitals?
Sucked.
Cry, baby.
And on that note, stop it.
I was a little like--
I realized my boys, like, Casey had to drive me,
which we should have gotten.
I should have just done the ambulance thing,
because it took so long, and every time she accelerated,
it was just like--
Oh, no.
It was awful.
But the boys, like, we just had to, like,
everybody jump in the car and go.
But they scared?
And they, I thought--
I thought, like, they're going to be terrified.
Just seeing me in so much pain.
I've never, like, been like that.
Or just, I felt like I was dying.
And they were fine.
[LAUGHTER]
They were, like, totally fine.
Artie's, like, in the hospital.
He's like, oh, look at this thing.
[LAUGHTER]
I'm, like, dying in a chair.
And he's just, like, amazed at what's in the room.
Yeah.
So yeah, now they were good.
Today, they woke up, didn't, like, no special attention.
Not like, oh, we almost saw our dad.
He's here.
Just like, hey, dad.
[LAUGHTER]
OK.
One, so one last story before we end it.
Yeah.
So I think this, this fear, this certain type of fear,
just, like, sets in at a certain age,
where, like, obviously it was way scarier for your wife
than it was for your kids.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Sure.
But there's this funny thing that happened recently where--
So Zuko, he's, like, one and a half now.
Wow.
Never been afraid of thunder.
Never been afraid of fireworks.
Nothing.
Yeah.
Completely randomly.
Last week, thunderstorm.
Super scared, started shaking.
Like, and Mike was just really scared,
like, following me around.
And now, now, whenever there's thunder,
like, he's, like, he's kind of stressed.
And I'm like, I remember this happening to me.
I remember feeling, like, not afraid of anything.
That's randomly just having fear of, like, mortality.
And, like, he's kind of afraid of, like, going fast
in a car and, like, all these, like, things
I just never thought about before.
Yeah, it's funny the things that we develop.
But it's kids.
They're just oblivious to the world.
They don't have anything to fear.
It's pretty awesome.
You have a hat, Zuko, for a year and a half, right?
With how old was he when you got him?
I've had him for a-- it'll be a year in October.
Are you kidding me?
I got him right when--
I got him right when the podcast started or so.
I can still-- yeah.
I can still picture that picture of him, like,
laying in the floorboard of the car or whatever.
It was a plane.
I don't remember.
It's a car, yeah.
I still remember the tweet.
Yeah.
Huh.
What would we do with our Twitter?
All my memories are on Twitter.
Exactly.
Not all of them.
Just the ones.
Just a good one to you guys.
Yeah, just the good ones.
I mean, my family, I have lots of good memories.
You should see my photo reel.
All right.
This is a long one.
Turns out I almost die and, like, we just go--
Come back to life.
Yeah, you know, you really appreciate life.
Life to life.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
All right.
See you next.
Yeah.
[MUSIC PLAYING]